---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: What is a Smart City?
published: true
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-01
labels:
  - Smart City
---
Imagine a metropolis where every aspect of life is automated and optimized.  The integration of sensors to the transportation network leads to fast and easy commutes.  Autonomous vehicles drive citizens to-and-fro.  Energy-efficient buildings and waste management keep costs low and remain environmentally friendly.  The entire city sits upon an integrated and connected network.  Age-old issues plaguing a city are solved with technology, but this idealistic view misses a human aspect. 

Initially, early players in the smart city field clung to this technology-utopia.  Since the initial hype in the early 2000s, the view of a smart city has transformed beyond the futuristic metropolis to a more citizen-centric smart urban design  (Anthopoulos and Fitsilis 2013; Cohen 2015).  In recent years, critics of the initial smart city iterations have divulged how a city is more complex and has more needs than technology alone can solve.  The acknowledgment today is that a citizen-centric approach is critical to designing a long-term solution to a city.  Citizen-centered approach is dependent on the social activities. According to Lewis Mumford, “social facts are primary, and physical organization of a city… must be subservient to its social needs” (Mumford, 1937).  Mumford is recognized as an influential intellectual in urban design and planning stating that a city is first a social hub.  Mumford's statement can be applied today by suggesting that smart city technology must adhere to the social needs of a city.  To build a smart city, stakeholders need to focus on end-use and how technology will be utilized to improve the quality of life.  

The term smart city is a hot topic fueling an arms race across the globe as governments, citizens, and technology industries strive to create the best version of this somewhat abstract idea.  Since the 1950’s we have seen urban living grow from 30% of the world’s population to a projected 80% by 2050 (Bettencourt & West, 2010).  On a global scale, the active players in smart cities are trying to identify commonalities to help develop a shared understanding of what a makes a city smart.  A smart city is defined by the intentions and goals set out by the stakeholders.  Therefore, what Barcelona, Spain believes to be a smart city may be significantly different from a smart city concept in Beijing, China. Neirotti et al. explored trends in smart city initiatives.  The researchers found no unique definition of a smart city. Instead, the emerging smart city depends on the local context (Neirotti et al., 2014).  Despite location, ICT (Information Communication Technology) and IoT (Internet of Things) are central to the development of a smart city.  The policies, ethics, and social dynamics of the local context determine how ICT and IoT are applied.  As such, considering the local context of the city in defining and designing a smart city is crucial. It is important that engineers are aware of this characteristic of a smart city when designing.  

- Anthopoulos, L., & Fitsilis, P. (2013, 12). Using classification and roadmapping techniques for smart city viability’s realization. Electronic Journal of e-Government, 11, 326.
- Bettencourt, L., & West, G. (2010, Oct). A unified theory of urban living. Nature Publishing Group. Retrieved from https://www.nature.com/articles/467912aciteas
- Cohen, B. (2015, August). The 3 generations of smart cities. Retrieved from https://www.fastcompany.com/3047795/the-3-generations-of-smart-cities
- Mumford, L. (1937, Nov). What is a city? Architectural Record, LXXXII.
- Neirotti, P., Marco, A. D., Cagliano, A. C., Mangano, G., & Scorrano, F. (2014). Current trends in smart city initiatives: Some stylised facts. Cities, 38, 25–36.
doi: 10.1016/j.cities.2013.12.010


